In this lecture you're going to learn how to work with date time objects in Python.
So on the top let's import the date time module.
This module has a class called date time.
There are a few different ways to create a date time object. Here's one way.
You can pass the year and the month and the date
and optionally we can pass the hour minute and second as well.
So this returns a date time object, let's call that
dt. Now what I don't like about this code, that you see in a lot of
tutorials, is this datetime.datetime. That's just ugly.
It is better to import the date time class from this module.
So from date time let's import date time.
Now you can create a date time object like this.
This is especially important if you're creating multiple date time objects.
You don't want to repeat datetime.datetime.
So this is one way to create a date time object, we can also call
datetime.now, so this is a method defined in the date time class.
And this returns the current date time.
We also have date time.str
time. That is for parsing or converting a date time string.
This is particularly useful when we get input from the user or read it from the file.
In both these scenarios we're dealing with strings. So our date time value
are represented on strings, and we need to convert them to
date time objects. So let's say we have a string like this.
2018 01 01. Now
we need to tell Python how to parse or how to convert these into an
date time object. So we need to tell it what parts represent
the year, the month, and the date. For that we use
directives. So, as the second argument we pass
format string, that includes the directives that specify
in various components of this date time string. So we use
a percent capital y to represent a 4 digit here.
Then we have a /% lower case n,
to represent a two digit month, and %d
to represent a two digit date, you also have directives for hour
minute and second. Don't worry about memorizing these, you can always find
this in documentation. So if you search for Python 3,
sql keytime, on this page,
down on the bottom,
we have this table of directives, so you can see various directives and their
meaning. So as an example here, we have this
% capital y, which represents a 4 digit year.
If you use a lower case y, that represents a two digit year.
Okay? Now back here, so this method returns
a date time object and store it here. We can also
convert a time stamp into a date time object, so on the top,
let me import the time module,
we call time.time let's say we have this timestamp somewhere in our program
perhaps we read it from a file. Now, you want to convert it to a
date time object. So this date time class
has another class method called from
timestamp. You can pass this time stamp here, this
returns a date time object, so we store it here, and now this
printed to see what it is. So this is the
current date time on my machine. So these are a few different ways
to create a date time object, now, our date time object
has attributes like year, month,
date and so on. So you can print a formatted screen
like this. You see the dt.year/
dt.month so run this program, there you
go, so, 2018/11. We also have
a method for formatting date times, so dt
.strftime. This method is the
opposite of strp time. So with this method we convert
a string into a date time object but as with our f time, we
convert a date time object into a string. So,
we need to specify our directives here. Let's say
percent y / percent n. Now,
let's print the result. To get the exact
same output. We can also compare date time objects
for example, let's change this variable to dt1
and this one to dt2. You can see if dt
2 is greater than dt1. Let's run the
program, obviously that is true because today is november 23.
So this is all about date time objects. Next we'll look at
time delta which represents a duration.